README.md, before:

# Virulen / VietLens – Learn English by Scanning Real Objects

Virulen (VietLens) is a **PWA English-learning app** that lets learners in Vietnam point their camera at real-world objects and instantly see their **English word, Vietnamese meaning, pronunciation, and example sentences**.

Instead of memorizing words from Western textbooks, learners build a **collection of cards** from the everyday objects around them – plastic stools, rice cookers, street food, school furniture – the real Vietnam.

> **Tagline:** *Local context, global language – learn English from the world you actually live in.*


Label Tool Build Around Edge Impulse: https://github.com/quochung-cyou/label-tool-edgeimpulse

Youtube Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c5tncPer468

---

## 1. Why This Exists 

### Tourism & communication

- Vietnam welcomed **12.6M+ international visitors in 2023** (VNAT), but tourism is still concentrated in major cities.
- Reports from World Bank, VNExpress, Tuoi Tre highlight that many rural destinations stay “off the map” because of **communication and English barriers**, not because they lack beauty or culture.

### English education, but out-of-context

- Vietnamese students start English in **Grade 1** (MOET curriculum), yet textbooks and apps are dominated by **urban/Western objects**.
- A 2022 analysis in *Asia TEFL Journal* found that over **80% of vocabulary objects in mainstream textbooks are generic or Western** (e.g., sofa, burger, subway) rather than local Vietnamese items.
- Research by Vietnamese educators shows textbook gaps for things tourists actually see:
  - `cái chõ xôi` (sticky rice steamer)
  - `ghế nhựa` (red plastic stool)
  - `quán cóc` (street stall)
  - `mâm cơm` (family meal tray)

The result is a **visual and cultural mismatch**:
“Chair” in the book is a Western dining chair; “chair” in real life is a plastic stool or bamboo bench. Students memorize the word, but it doesn’t connect to their reality.

### Gap in current apps

- **Language apps** (Duolingo, Memrise, Babbel, Ling, etc.) teach generic vocab; no *offline*, Vietnam-specific **scan-and-learn** for local objects.
- Global datasets and routines miss **Vietnam‑specific foods, tools, and rural scenes**.

**Virulen / VietLens targets this exact gap**:
*Offline-first, locally trained object recognition + English learning, optimized for low-end Android devices in Vietnam.*



## 2. How It Works 

![alt text](edgeimpulse_labeltool_diagram.png)

The large diagram below is the end‑to‑end pipeline that produces the on‑device model used in Virulen.  
To make it easier to understand, we break it into four stages.

### 3.1 Web crawl & candidate discovery

![alt text](image-1.png)

This block corresponds to the **left side** of the diagram.

- **Search engines (Bing / Google)**  
  We query public search APIs to discover pages and images that are likely to contain
  Vietnam‑specific objects (street food, local tools, rural scenes, etc.).

- **Crawl module**  
  - **Core Logic** orchestrates crawling and filtering.
  - Multiple **Workers** download pages and images in parallel.
  - Output is a large pool of *candidate images* plus metadata.

This stage answers: **“What images from the web might show the Vietnam objects we care about?”**

---

### 3.2 Data acquisition for Viet‑specific objects

![alt text](dataset-example-1.png)

This block is the **middle bottom** of the diagram.

- The crawl output is filtered into **Vietnam bias object data** – images that show
  Vietnamese contexts and artifacts we want the model to recognize.
- A **data acquisition service**:
  - Stores the raw images.
  - Groups them into **samples** (per object / per scene).
  - Prepares preview grids (as shown in the photo‑grid box in the diagram).

This stage answers: **“Which of those images are actually useful for our Vietnam‑focused dataset?”**

---

### 3.3 Labeling & human‑in‑the‑loop

![alt text](image.png)

This block is the **bottom‑right**.

- **Produce / Core Logic / Consumer**  
  - A small pipeline (shown with Kafka) feeds images into the labeling tools and
    collects labeled results.
  - Images flow through a **Produce → Label → Consume** cycle.

- **Labeling module (web UI)**  
  - Human labelers see each image (or grid of images).
  - They draw bounding boxes, assign class names, and validate / correct auto‑suggested labels.

- **Gemini fallback (bottom‑left box in the diagram)**  
  - A multimodal model (e.g. Gemini 2.0 Flash) can propose initial labels.
  - Humans confirm or fix them instead of labeling everything from scratch.

This stage answers: **“How do we turn raw images into high‑quality labeled training data?”**

---

### 3.4 Edge Impulse training & deployment

![alt text](image-2.png)

This block is the **top pipeline** and the central Edge Impulse logo.

- **Model pipeline in Edge Impulse Studio**  
  - **Data ingestion**: labeled samples are uploaded into Edge Impulse.
  - **Feature generation**: images are converted into feature vectors.
  - **Model architecture & training**:
    - A CNN / object‑detection network is configured (backbone, head, etc.).
    - Training, validation, and augmentation happen inside Edge Impulse Studio.
  - **Quantization**: the trained model is quantized for efficient on‑device inference
    (the “int8 model” box in the diagram).

- **Export to Virulen**  
  - Edge Impulse exports a **standalone WebAssembly model bundle**.
  - The bundle is placed under `public/edge-impulse/` and loaded in the app by
    `lib/edge-impulse-browser.ts`.
  - `ScanCamera` uses this model to run real‑time detection directly in the browser.


- **Frontend framework:** Next.js 16 App Router, React 19, TypeScript.
- **On-device AI:**
  - `lib/edge-impulse-browser.ts` lazy-loads:
    - `/edge-impulse/edge-impulse-standalone.js`
    - `/edge-impulse/run-impulse.js`
  - `ScanCamera` (`components/scan-camera.tsx`):
    - Captures frames from `getUserMedia` video.
    - Packs pixels into feature vectors (`lib/ei-image.ts`).
    - Calls the Edge Impulse classifier and receives bounding-box detections.
    - Applies simple **per-label non-max suppression** to clean up overlapping boxes.
    - Maps detection labels to card definitions (`lib/card-dictionary.ts` → `findCardByLabel`).

- **State & storage:**
  - User stats, streak, week progress, and collected cards are stored in **`localStorage`** (`lib/storage.ts`).
  - Cards are reconstructed from compact references + dictionary data to keep storage lightweight.

- **UI / UX:**
  - Mobile-first layout (`app/globals.css`, shadcn-style components in `components/ui`).
  - Animated scan overlay and capture animation (`components/detection-overlay.tsx`, `components/capture-card-animation.tsx`).
  - Floating dock navigation (`components/floating-dock.tsx`).



## 3. What the App Does

### Core experience

- **Scan objects with the camera**  
  - The app uses an **Edge Impulse** object-detection model loaded in the browser (`lib/edge-impulse-browser.ts`) to detect objects in real time.
  - Detections are mapped to **curated word cards** (`lib/card-dictionary.json` → `lib/card-dictionary.ts`).

- **Catch and collect vocabulary cards**  
  - Each recognized object becomes a **Word Card** (`lib/card-types.ts`, `lib/word-data.ts`):
    - English word  
    - Vietnamese meaning  
    - Phonetic / pronunciation  
    - Example sentences  
    - Category (e.g., household, food, school, transport)  
    - User-captured images

- **Gamified dashboard (Home page)**  
  - Daily mission word / quest  
  - Weekly progress heatmap (`components/week-progress.tsx`)  
  - Streak, total time spent scanning, and recent scans (`app/page.tsx`, `lib/storage.ts`).

- **Card collection & details**
  - Browse all collected cards (`app/cards/page.tsx`, `components/beautiful-card-collection.tsx`).
  - View detail for each word: meaning, examples, images, and favorites.

- **Offline-friendly PWA**
  - Next.js PWA setup (`app/manifest.ts`, `app/layout.tsx` + `SwRegister`) with:
    - `start_url: "/virulen/"`  
    - `display: "standalone"`  
  - Edge Impulse model & runtime served from static assets under `public/edge-impulse/`.
  - Designed to run on **low-spec phones** with no stable internet.


---

## 4. Tech Stack

- **Framework:** Next.js 16 (App Router, TypeScript)
- **Language:** TypeScript, React 19
- **Styling:** Tailwind CSS 4, custom mobile-focused CSS, shadcn/ui components, Lucide icons
- **AI / CV:** Edge Impulse WebAssembly classifier, custom Vietnam-focused dataset (served from `public/edge-impulse`)
- **Speech (optional):** `vosk-browser` (script loaded in `app/layout.tsx` for browser speech recognition)
- **Storage:** `localStorage` for cards, favorites, and stats
- **Animations:** `framer-motion`, CSS animations

---

## 5. Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** ≥ 18
- Package manager: **pnpm** (recommended), or npm.
- A modern browser with camera support (for development).

### Installation

```bash
# in the repo root
pnpm install
# or
npm install
```

### Run in development

```bash
pnpm dev
# or
npm run dev
```

By default this runs on `http://localhost:3000`.
Open it on a device with a camera (you can also use your laptop camera).

> Note: In dev, base paths may differ from production (`next.config.mjs` uses `basePath: "/virulen"` and `assetPrefix: "/virulen/"` for static export).

### Build & static export

This project is configured for **static export**:

```bash
pnpm build
# then
pnpm start   # Next.js standalone server
```

Or, if you run `next export` in your deployment pipeline, ensure you respect:

- `basePath: "/virulen"`
- `assetPrefix: "/virulen/"`
- Static assets required for Edge Impulse under `public/edge-impulse/`.

---

## 6. Key Directories

- **`app/`**
  - `page.tsx` – Home dashboard (stats, daily mission, quick actions, recent scans).
  - `scan/page.tsx` – Scan screen (integrates `ScanCamera`, current detections, “catch” animation).
  - `cards/` – Card list and detail pages.
  - `manifest.ts` – PWA manifest.
  - `layout.tsx` – Root layout, fonts, PWA & speech scripts.

- **`components/`**
  - `scan-camera.tsx` – Core camera + Edge Impulse pipeline.
  - `detection-overlay.tsx` – Renders bounding boxes.
  - `beautiful-card-collection.tsx`, `word-card-item.tsx`, `word-card-modal.tsx` – Collection UI.
  - `floating-dock.tsx`, `stats-card.tsx`, `week-progress.tsx` – Navigation and dashboard UI.
  - `audio-recorder.tsx` – Voice features (for pronunciation practice and missions).

- **`lib/`**
  - `edge-impulse-browser.ts` – Loads and instantiates the Edge Impulse classifier.
  - `ei-image.ts` – Packs camera frames into features for the model.
  - `card-dictionary.json` – Dictionary of all supported words and metadata.
  - `card-dictionary.ts` / `card-types.ts` – Card models and helper functions.
  - `storage.ts` – Local storage for cards, favorites, and user stats.
  - `asset-path.ts` – Base path helper for static assets.

- **`public/edge-impulse/`**
  - Edge Impulse generated files (`edge-impulse-standalone.js`, `run-impulse.js`, model assets).

---

## 7. Roadmap / Ideas

- **Richer Vietnam-specific dataset**
  - Expand `card-dictionary.json` with more rural artifacts, foods, and tools.
  - Community-sourced images and labels from classrooms and local guides.

- **Education edition**
  - Teacher dashboard: see which words a class has “caught”.
  - Thematic missions: “Market day”, “School day”, “Kitchen tour”.

- **Tourism bridge**
  - Tourist mode: phrasebook + object scan for travelers.
  - Local mode: help locals explain cultural items to visitors (e.g., `điếu cày`, `nón lá`, `bánh xèo`).

- **Richer speech & pronunciation**
  - Integrate `vosk-browser` fully for **offline pronunciation practice** and voice-based quizzes.

- **Data & research**
  - Partner with educators and tourism experts to validate vocabulary lists.
  - Open data contributions (anonymized) to support further research on **low-resource, domain-specific object recognition**.

---

## 8. License & Attribution


- Acknowledge **Edge Impulse** for on-device ML tooling.

Commit message:

feat: update novelty in readme

README.md, after:

# Virulen / VietLens – Learn English by Scanning Real Objects

Virulen (VietLens) is a **PWA English-learning app** that lets learners in Vietnam point their camera at real-world objects and instantly see their **English word, Vietnamese meaning, pronunciation, and example sentences**.

Instead of memorizing words from Western textbooks, learners build a **collection of cards** from the everyday objects around them – plastic stools, rice cookers, street food, school furniture – the real Vietnam.


**Novelty:**
- New dataset for Vietnam-specific objects (**10k data**) in unconstrained environment
- The app running fully offline in mid-end devices via webapp (which allow both IOS/Android/and any devices with web browser) to run. Benchmark showcase it interface with **200-300ms latency**.




Label Tool Build Around Edge Impulse: https://github.com/quochung-cyou/label-tool-edgeimpulse

Youtube Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c5tncPer468

---

## 1. Why This Exists 

### Tourism & communication

- Vietnam welcomed **12.6M+ international visitors in 2023** (VNAT), but tourism is still concentrated in major cities.
- Reports from World Bank, VNExpress, Tuoi Tre highlight that many rural destinations stay “off the map” because of **communication and English barriers**, not because they lack beauty or culture.

### English education, but out-of-context

- Vietnamese students start English in **Grade 1** (MOET curriculum), yet textbooks and apps are dominated by **urban/Western objects**.
- A 2022 analysis in *Asia TEFL Journal* found that over **80% of vocabulary objects in mainstream textbooks are generic or Western** (e.g., sofa, burger, subway) rather than local Vietnamese items.
- Research by Vietnamese educators shows textbook gaps for things tourists actually see:
  - `cái chõ xôi` (sticky rice steamer)
  - `ghế nhựa` (red plastic stool)
  - `quán cóc` (street stall)
  - `mâm cơm` (family meal tray)

The result is a **visual and cultural mismatch**:
“Chair” in the book is a Western dining chair; “chair” in real life is a plastic stool or bamboo bench. Students memorize the word, but it doesn’t connect to their reality.

### Gap in current apps

- **Language apps** (Duolingo, Memrise, Babbel, Ling, etc.) teach generic vocab; no *offline*, Vietnam-specific **scan-and-learn** for local objects.
- Global datasets and routines miss **Vietnam‑specific foods, tools, and rural scenes**.

**Virulen / VietLens targets this exact gap**:
*Offline-first, locally trained object recognition + English learning, optimized for low-end Android devices in Vietnam.*



## 2. How It Works 

![alt text](edgeimpulse_labeltool_diagram.png)

The large diagram below is the end‑to‑end pipeline that produces the on‑device model used in Virulen.  
To make it easier to understand, we break it into four stages.

### 3.1 Web crawl & candidate discovery

![alt text](image-1.png)

This block corresponds to the **left side** of the diagram.

- **Search engines (Bing / Google)**  
  We query public search APIs to discover pages and images that are likely to contain
  Vietnam‑specific objects (street food, local tools, rural scenes, etc.).

- **Crawl module**  
  - **Core Logic** orchestrates crawling and filtering.
  - Multiple **Workers** download pages and images in parallel.
  - Output is a large pool of *candidate images* plus metadata.

This stage answers: **“What images from the web might show the Vietnam objects we care about?”**

---

### 3.2 Data acquisition for Viet‑specific objects

![alt text](dataset-example-1.png)

This block is the **middle bottom** of the diagram.

- The crawl output is filtered into **Vietnam bias object data** – images that show
  Vietnamese contexts and artifacts we want the model to recognize.
- A **data acquisition service**:
  - Stores the raw images.
  - Groups them into **samples** (per object / per scene).
  - Prepares preview grids (as shown in the photo‑grid box in the diagram).

This stage answers: **“Which of those images are actually useful for our Vietnam‑focused dataset?”**

---

### 3.3 Labeling & human‑in‑the‑loop

![alt text](image.png)

This block is the **bottom‑right**.

- **Produce / Core Logic / Consumer**  
  - A small pipeline (shown with Kafka) feeds images into the labeling tools and
    collects labeled results.
  - Images flow through a **Produce → Label → Consume** cycle.

- **Labeling module (web UI)**  
  - Human labelers see each image (or grid of images).
  - They draw bounding boxes, assign class names, and validate / correct auto‑suggested labels.

- **Gemini fallback (bottom‑left box in the diagram)**  
  - A multimodal model (e.g. Gemini 2.0 Flash) can propose initial labels.
  - Humans confirm or fix them instead of labeling everything from scratch.

This stage answers: **“How do we turn raw images into high‑quality labeled training data?”**

---

### 3.4 Edge Impulse training & deployment

![alt text](image-2.png)

This block is the **top pipeline** and the central Edge Impulse logo.

- **Model pipeline in Edge Impulse Studio**  
  - **Data ingestion**: labeled samples are uploaded into Edge Impulse.
  - **Feature generation**: images are converted into feature vectors.
  - **Model architecture & training**:
    - A CNN / object‑detection network is configured (backbone, head, etc.).
    - Training, validation, and augmentation happen inside Edge Impulse Studio.
  - **Quantization**: the trained model is quantized for efficient on‑device inference
    (the “int8 model” box in the diagram).

- **Export to Virulen**  
  - Edge Impulse exports a **standalone WebAssembly model bundle**.
  - The bundle is placed under `public/edge-impulse/` and loaded in the app by
    `lib/edge-impulse-browser.ts`.
  - `ScanCamera` uses this model to run real‑time detection directly in the browser.


- **Frontend framework:** Next.js 16 App Router, React 19, TypeScript.
- **On-device AI:**
  - `lib/edge-impulse-browser.ts` lazy-loads:
    - `/edge-impulse/edge-impulse-standalone.js`
    - `/edge-impulse/run-impulse.js`
  - `ScanCamera` (`components/scan-camera.tsx`):
    - Captures frames from `getUserMedia` video.
    - Packs pixels into feature vectors (`lib/ei-image.ts`).
    - Calls the Edge Impulse classifier and receives bounding-box detections.
    - Applies simple **per-label non-max suppression** to clean up overlapping boxes.
    - Maps detection labels to card definitions (`lib/card-dictionary.ts` → `findCardByLabel`).

- **State & storage:**
  - User stats, streak, week progress, and collected cards are stored in **`localStorage`** (`lib/storage.ts`).
  - Cards are reconstructed from compact references + dictionary data to keep storage lightweight.

- **UI / UX:**
  - Mobile-first layout (`app/globals.css`, shadcn-style components in `components/ui`).
  - Animated scan overlay and capture animation (`components/detection-overlay.tsx`, `components/capture-card-animation.tsx`).
  - Floating dock navigation (`components/floating-dock.tsx`).



## 3. What the App Does

### Core experience

- **Scan objects with the camera**  
  - The app uses an **Edge Impulse** object-detection model loaded in the browser (`lib/edge-impulse-browser.ts`) to detect objects in real time.
  - Detections are mapped to **curated word cards** (`lib/card-dictionary.json` → `lib/card-dictionary.ts`).

- **Catch and collect vocabulary cards**  
  - Each recognized object becomes a **Word Card** (`lib/card-types.ts`, `lib/word-data.ts`):
    - English word  
    - Vietnamese meaning  
    - Phonetic / pronunciation  
    - Example sentences  
    - Category (e.g., household, food, school, transport)  
    - User-captured images

- **Gamified dashboard (Home page)**  
  - Daily mission word / quest  
  - Weekly progress heatmap (`components/week-progress.tsx`)  
  - Streak, total time spent scanning, and recent scans (`app/page.tsx`, `lib/storage.ts`).

- **Card collection & details**
  - Browse all collected cards (`app/cards/page.tsx`, `components/beautiful-card-collection.tsx`).
  - View detail for each word: meaning, examples, images, and favorites.

- **Offline-friendly PWA**
  - Next.js PWA setup (`app/manifest.ts`, `app/layout.tsx` + `SwRegister`) with:
    - `start_url: "/virulen/"`  
    - `display: "standalone"`  
  - Edge Impulse model & runtime served from static assets under `public/edge-impulse/`.
  - Designed to run on **low-spec phones** with no stable internet.


---

## 4. Tech Stack

- **Framework:** Next.js 16 (App Router, TypeScript)
- **Language:** TypeScript, React 19
- **Styling:** Tailwind CSS 4, custom mobile-focused CSS, shadcn/ui components, Lucide icons
- **AI / CV:** Edge Impulse WebAssembly classifier, custom Vietnam-focused dataset (served from `public/edge-impulse`)
- **Speech (optional):** `vosk-browser` (script loaded in `app/layout.tsx` for browser speech recognition)
- **Storage:** `localStorage` for cards, favorites, and stats
- **Animations:** `framer-motion`, CSS animations

---

## 5. Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** ≥ 18
- Package manager: **pnpm** (recommended), or npm.
- A modern browser with camera support (for development).

### Installation

```bash
# in the repo root
pnpm install
# or
npm install
```

### Run in development

```bash
pnpm dev
# or
npm run dev
```

By default this runs on `http://localhost:3000`.
Open it on a device with a camera (you can also use your laptop camera).

> Note: In dev, base paths may differ from production (`next.config.mjs` uses `basePath: "/virulen"` and `assetPrefix: "/virulen/"` for static export).

### Build & static export

This project is configured for **static export**:

```bash
pnpm build
# then
pnpm start   # Next.js standalone server
```

Or, if you run `next export` in your deployment pipeline, ensure you respect:

- `basePath: "/virulen"`
- `assetPrefix: "/virulen/"`
- Static assets required for Edge Impulse under `public/edge-impulse/`.

---

## 6. Key Directories

- **`app/`**
  - `page.tsx` – Home dashboard (stats, daily mission, quick actions, recent scans).
  - `scan/page.tsx` – Scan screen (integrates `ScanCamera`, current detections, “catch” animation).
  - `cards/` – Card list and detail pages.
  - `manifest.ts` – PWA manifest.
  - `layout.tsx` – Root layout, fonts, PWA & speech scripts.

- **`components/`**
  - `scan-camera.tsx` – Core camera + Edge Impulse pipeline.
  - `detection-overlay.tsx` – Renders bounding boxes.
  - `beautiful-card-collection.tsx`, `word-card-item.tsx`, `word-card-modal.tsx` – Collection UI.
  - `floating-dock.tsx`, `stats-card.tsx`, `week-progress.tsx` – Navigation and dashboard UI.
  - `audio-recorder.tsx` – Voice features (for pronunciation practice and missions).

- **`lib/`**
  - `edge-impulse-browser.ts` – Loads and instantiates the Edge Impulse classifier.
  - `ei-image.ts` – Packs camera frames into features for the model.
  - `card-dictionary.json` – Dictionary of all supported words and metadata.
  - `card-dictionary.ts` / `card-types.ts` – Card models and helper functions.
  - `storage.ts` – Local storage for cards, favorites, and user stats.
  - `asset-path.ts` – Base path helper for static assets.

- **`public/edge-impulse/`**
  - Edge Impulse generated files (`edge-impulse-standalone.js`, `run-impulse.js`, model assets).

---

## 7. Roadmap / Ideas

- **Richer Vietnam-specific dataset**
  - Expand `card-dictionary.json` with more rural artifacts, foods, and tools.
  - Community-sourced images and labels from classrooms and local guides.

- **Education edition**
  - Teacher dashboard: see which words a class has “caught”.
  - Thematic missions: “Market day”, “School day”, “Kitchen tour”.

- **Tourism bridge**
  - Tourist mode: phrasebook + object scan for travelers.
  - Local mode: help locals explain cultural items to visitors (e.g., `điếu cày`, `nón lá`, `bánh xèo`).

- **Richer speech & pronunciation**
  - Integrate `vosk-browser` fully for **offline pronunciation practice** and voice-based quizzes.

- **Data & research**
  - Partner with educators and tourism experts to validate vocabulary lists.
  - Open data contributions (anonymized) to support further research on **low-resource, domain-specific object recognition**.

---

## 8. License & Attribution


- Acknowledge **Edge Impulse** for on-device ML tooling.
